Design doc - NodeSet feature (#491)
NVIDIA/KAI-Scheduler: docs/developer/designs/node-sets/README.md

By implementing such function you can register your code as SubsetNodes plugin.

A node can be in a zero or more NodeSets.

## Defined behavior

### Registration 
Like any other hook, the developer require to register the plugin prior to compilation.
```go
framework.RegisterPluginBuilder("myPlugin", myPlugin.New)
```

In addition the user should add the plugin name into the scheduler configuration.

### Session function
The session object expose API for activating the plugins that implement the hook.

```go
func (ssn *Session) SubsetNodes(PodGroup) []NodeSet
```

Such function is accessible during cycle, as long as the session exists, and exposes the logic of all the implementing plugins.

In case of multiple plugins that implement that hook, the expected behavior is multiple layer of SubSetting.
For example if you have 2 plugins `P` and `R`. Dividing the cluster nodes happens in 2 steps:

First plugin, `P`, divide all cluster nodes to subsets:
```
AllNodes -> P1, P2, P3
```
Then plugin R, divide each subset:
```
P1 -> P1R1, P1R2
P2 -> P2R1, P2R2, P2R3
P3 -> P3R1, P3R2
```
So the final results of subsets is:
```
P1R1, P1R2, P2R1, P2R2, P2R3, P3R1, P1R2
```

### During scheduling

> During scheduling when a PodGroup is chosen to be scheduled, we call that hook before attempting to allocate any task, dividing the cluster nodes to NodeSets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During scheduling when a workload is chosen to be scheduled, the scheduler algorithm invokes that hook before attempting to allocate any task, dividing the cluster nodes to NodeSets.
```

> As opposed to traditional behavior, we will now attempt to schedule the PodGroup over each NodeSet, until we find one over its scheduled, and stop the iteration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As opposed to traditional behavior, we will now attempt to schedule the workload over each NodeSet, until we find one over its scheduled, and stop the iteration.
```

# NodeSets

## Overview
This document outlines an enhancement to the scheduling procedure by introducing the concept of NodeSets, enabling new granularity of pod scheduling over cluster of nodes, by hooking a cluster nodes division logic, and performing scheduling attempts over the resulting sets.

Topology aware scheduling is a good example of such requirement - Attempting to schedule a job over a set of nodes under same topological domain. While such feature can be implemented in pre-predicate and predicate hooks, multi domain is not feasible, limiting the topology scheduling capabilities.

In this document we introduce a new concept of `NodeSet` which is a set of nodes the scheduler attempt to schedule a job over. 

## Motivation

> Current implementation of topology scheduling is limited to a single domain attempt. This mean that when a workload required to be scheduled with topology constraint the plugin searches for a capable domain (Without certainty the job is schedulable over) and try to allocate the job over. If the attempt fails, it will not look for a different domain capable to schedule this workload. 

Reviewer 2: Add this - https://github.com/NVIDIA/KAI-Scheduler/tree/main/docs/developer/designs/topology-awareness#stage-2-simulation-based-evaluation url as reference and a small comment about.

The uncertainty comes from the fact that the topology plugin can only have a best effort decision, as it does not aware of all scheduling constraints, such as NodeAffinity, LabelSelecot, PVC, etc...

> This made us re-think about the integration of the plugin with the scheduling framework, which lead us to suggest the NodeSets concept.

Reviewer 2: We knew that we are going to need to tackle it at some point. I am not sure this sentence is necessary.

For example if you have 2 plugins `P` and `R`. Dividing the cluster nodes happens in 2 steps:

First plugin, `P`, divide all cluster nodes to subsets:
```
AllNodes -> P1, P2, P3
```
Then plugin R, divide each subset:
```
P1 -> P1R1, P1R2
P2 -> P2R1, P2R2, P2R3
P3 -> P3R1, P3R2
```
So the final results of subsets is:
```
P1R1, P1R2, P2R1, P2R2, P2R3, P3R1, P1R2
```

### During scheduling

During scheduling when a PodGroup is chosen to be scheduled, we call that hook before attempting to allocate any task, dividing the cluster nodes to NodeSets.

As opposed to traditional behavior, we will now attempt to schedule the PodGroup over each NodeSet, until we find one over its scheduled, and stop the iteration.

```go
for podGroup := range PodGroups {
	nodeSets := ssn.SubsetNodes(podGroup)
	for nodeSet := range nodeSets {
		if attemptToAllocatePodGroup(podGroup, nodeSet) {
			break
        }   
    }
}
```
It means that for each PodGroup we perform the division, and then try each NodeSet, until we find a matching one.

## Low level design

```go
package NodeInfo

type NodeSet []*NodeInfo
```

```go
package api

> type SubsetNodesFn func(job *podgroup_info.PodGroupInfo, isRealAllocation bool, nodeSet node_info.NodeSet) error

Reviewer 2: Instead of passing `isRealAllocation` directly, maybe create a struct to deliver other relevant parameters? Do we expect any such parameters with the podgroup subsets?

Author: Actually the only reason we need `isRealAllocation` parameter is in order to count how many tasks needs to be allocated (Pending only / virtually evicted pods also).

Another option, tell me what you think, is instead of passing job + isRealAllocation, is passing job + List of tasks.
And someone from outside will decide which tasks to pass based weather is real allocation or simulation

Reviewer 2: I am also in favor of passing a job with a list of tasks
